Tell us about the first time you rode in
a robot car. I'm just curious what your
experience was like.
>> I thought that it would be a little bit
scary. I was just looking around. The
steering wheel was moving. People were
staring at the car as well as at me. But
I'll be honest, after 5 minutes, it was
kind of boring. And it was very clear to
me that look, this is going to be a very
important part of the future of
transportation.
[Music]
This week on Bold Names, Suchin Console,
he's the chief product officer at Uber
where he thinks about a lot of things,
but especially these days self-driving
cars.
>> Somebody controlling this thing.
>> Hey, did you see it slowed up for the
speed bump? It's switching lanes all
quick.
>> Uber's getting into the robot taxi
business again. This time with a new
strategy. It's partnering with the likes
of Alphabets Whimo and other autonomous
car vehicle companies. It's getting
those robot cars in its app, that
everexpanding Uber app that wants to do
everything in your life.
>> So, we talk about the future of
transportation and what this could mean
even for the future of car ownership
itself.
>> We're so glad you could come here today.
Uh it's been a big few years uh for
Uber. You've announced some big
partnerships with the likes of Whimo for
autonomous vehicles and some other
smaller players like May Mobility. But
first, I think we should step back and
talk about how we got to this moment.
This isn't Uber's first foray into robot
cars. A handful of years ago, the
company also was pushing into this
space. What's different today? What's
different today is that we are building
a technology platform. So rather than
being a software provider that is
building its own AV tech and running a
vertically integrated service, we are a
platform now which has built both demand
generation as well as a hybrid
marketplace into that platform and we're
working with 20 different partners in
mobility, in delivery and in freight
worldwide. And you and you pivoted
because uh trying to build your own
robot car was troubled, right? It was
becoming super expensive. There was a
deadly crash in 2018. A 49year-old woman
was struck and killed in this
intersection in Tempe, Arizona.
>> Police say the Uber vehicle was
operating in self-driving or autonomous
mode
>> today. Uber suspending testing of
self-driving vehicles in Tempe,
Pittsburgh. This was maybe something you
all didn't want to get into as deeply as
you once thought.
>> We had to make many choices uh as our
business evolved. COVID happened.
There's a lot of impact to our business
and at the same time when you think of
both the amount of cost that it involves
but also there are pros and cons of
being a vertically integrated player. So
now what we are doing is we actually
working with companies uh that are all
over the world. We have signed about 20
partners at this point. We have deployed
with many of those partners. We have
deployed with VHO in Austin, Atlanta,
and Phoenix. We have deployed with the
likes of Veride in the Middle East. It's
been a great journey so far and we think
that the next few years is going to be
fascinating as the number of partners
that are deployed grows, the volume
grows both on the mobility side as well
as the delivery side. And our goal is to
a make sure that it is safe because
safety is paramount. And we have
developed sort of a framework which we
use to evaluate all the partners that we
put on our network and then eventually
for us to be able to provide a great
user experience. A lot of users are
going to have their first AV experience
on Uber. That's already true in cities
like Austin, Atlanta, even in the Middle
East.
>> Why did you pivot to this partnership
approach? We think that there are many
many companies in the world that are
building their self-driving technology
and the value that we bring is to be
able to provide a platform and we should
talk a little bit more about the
platform. This platform is not just a
demand generation platform. Of course,
we're doing about 36 million trips every
single day. So there's a huge amount of
demand that we bring to this platform.
But what we also bring is what we call a
hybrid marketplace. The hybrid
marketplace meaning that on the same
platform we have AVs but we also have
human drivers. What that allows us to do
is to provide the right kind of
utilization of all of these assets.
These vehicles are expensive and we need
to make sure that they are utilized to
the maximum possible but also being able
to manage through the peaks and troughs
of demand that we see. the number of
vehicles that you need at say 8:30 a.m.
on a weekday is very different than what
you may need at 300 p.m. on that same
day as well. So, us being able to offer
a hybrid of autonomous vehicles as well
as human drivers just allows us to
balance that. We already balanced that
in our core product today where and we
have a pretty evolved mechanisms to make
sure that the right number of drivers
are on the road and they are in the
right places and that is the kind of
value that we bring to AVs as well.
Let's let's focus on Austin uh for a
moment. Austin, Texas where in a lot of
ways this is a kind of a battleground
experiment among a lot of companies
doing robot cars. And first of all, how
many Whimos do you have in your network
in Austin?
>> We have more than a 100 Whimos now in
Austin.
>> The future of driving through Austin is
here. Except it comes without a driver.
>> Uber announcing it's launching
driverless cars with partner Whimo in
Austin.
>> This really underlines a willingness by
Uber to partner with major competitors
as it tries to fend off others in the
space, namely Elon Musk's Tesla, which
>> how does this work for the user?
>> It's a great question. So you open the
Uber app and then our hybrid network and
our platform makes a decision on whether
we should send you a human driver or
whether we should send you an AV.
>> So it's not it's not the passenger
saying I want to have a robot pick me
up. It's the network is deciding what's
the availability.
>> Yep. I'll I'll explain. So we basically
offer them a choice. We will look at the
to and the from. We look at the
availability of the AVs as well as human
drivers and we will figure out based on
some models that we have built on how
long would the user have to wait extra
if they got an AV, how much will they
have to walk extra if they got an AV
both at the pickup point as well as the
drop off point. So based on those uh you
know huristics or models in our in our
platform we will make a decision to send
them an AV and at that at that point you
know their app will pop up and say an AV
will come to pick you up uh do you want
to opt in or not because we are still at
a stage where we want to give the users
a choice at that point if they don't
want an AV they can say no but what we
are seeing is increasingly month over
month the number of people the
percentage of people who are saying yes
to an AV is actually growing as they get
more and more used to it. Both because
they may have been in one before and
also they're just seeing them around and
overall the city is getting used to
them.
>> What is the reason for people to choose
an AV? I mean, it's clear why these are
good for you ultimately in terms of
labor costs. But beyond the novelty
factor, why do you think riders are
choosing these?
>> I think different riders have different
reasons. There's definitely, you could
say there's a novelty factor initially,
but there are folks who like the fact
that these are electric cars. These cars
are newer, these cars are cleaner. Uh
there's some folks who want to be alone
in a car as well. So I would say there's
a one of the things that we have learned
through our core business over time is
both on the demand side as well as on
the supply side, meaning amongst our
drivers as well as riders, there's a lot
of heterogeneous preferences. Not every
rider is thinking the same thing.
They're not wanting the same thing.
Which is why even in our core product
without autonomous, you have multiple
options. You have Uber X, you have Uber
comfort, you have black, you have SUV,
and each of those has some trade-offs.
Could be based on price, could be based
on ETA. So we think that people have
their preferences. Those preferences
could change by person. The preferences
could also just change by time of day,
by location, and so on. So, as a result
of that, you know, many of them opt in.
>> So, what's the feedback been from users
um of these vehicles, of these robot
cars? Are they able to give it five
stars or they or do they tip? Uh I mean,
what's how how do you know if they like
it or not?
>> Well, they're not tipping the robot, but
they're definitely giving feedback. I
would say they're giving feedback in two
different ways. One is they can do star
rating, and we're getting 4.9 stars.
>> 4.9. the robot gets nearly five stars.
>> Yeah, we we have a lot of volume now.
We've you know overall on our entire
platform we are doing on an annual
annualized basis millions of trips but
in Austin we've done a lot of trips as
well. So we have a good amount of data
and then the second way that you could
say they quote unquote vote is the
opt-in rate as well as the cancel rate
and both of those numbers are very very
good. Uh so I think all is to say that
the user acceptance of this is very good
and this is where I would mention it's
not just about us offering our platform
as a demand generation platform but
there's a lot of things that we have
built into our app which you would see
if you were in Austin or Atlanta and you
hear match because the whole user
experience now changes because there's
no driver to guide you when the car
comes how do you open the door how do
you start the trip using the app if in
case something goes wrong and you want
to pull over, how does that happen? So
there's a lot of things that we have
built of course in partnership with in
this case Veimo but a lot of other
partners as well and we have a fully
dedicated team that is focused on
looking at the user experience getting
feedback from users and improving it.
>> I'm really curious how the business
structure works here. Can you give us
any insight into what your relationship
is with Whimo? Who's paying whom? If
anything
>> I would say uh we are in very early
days. So you know we have different
kinds of business relationships with a
lot of our partners and while I can't
speak to the specific you know agreement
that we may have in this particular case
in general what I would say is this is
an ecosystem play. It's an ecosystem
play where we want to drive value to the
network provider which is us to the
vehicle uh provider as well as of course
to the software provider and the
technology provider as well as there's a
fleet management aspect to it as well.
So we feel very good about where things
are evolving such that all parties can
derive some value from it but at this
point we are not really obsessing over
that. What we want to make sure is that
we can manage these vehicles on our
platform and we can provide a great and
a safe user experience to our end users.
This is going to be a long game and I
would say we are in a very very early
stage of this long game and over the
next 3 to 5 to 10 years as this world
evolves. The most important thing for us
is that we as a platform both to our end
users as well as to our partners such as
Veimo and beyond we show up as someone
who's you know contributing and helping
them derive value from this asset. But
just to talk brass tax, I mean, as I
understand it, you get a cut of the
driverless taxi bookings. That obviously
that could change in the future, but
that implies that for now you have the
customer relationship and Whimo is just
another driver on your platform.
>> Uh the structure of the relationship,
you know, would vary and could be
different, but you're right. In this
particular case, it is the Uber app and
the user is paying us. So we are sort of
you know taking you know we are the
merchant of record if you will and then
it's up to us then to share you know the
economic uh uh outcome of that with our
partners which in this case is Whimo
who's operating uh the fleets both in in
Austin as well as Atlanta.
>> Let's talk a little bit about more about
Whimo because I'm here in San Francisco.
I think you are headquartered in San
Francisco as well though I know you
travel a lot. Um, and the situation is a
little bit different. Whimo has its own
app. I see Whimos on a regular basis
every day. I just saw a few when I was
out walking the dog. And there's new
data that's showing that Whimo has
really captured a lot of the the ride
share market in San Francisco. Perhaps
there's some estimates out there maybe a
quarter of of that in the under two
years. Are is this a friendmy situation?
uh on one hand you're you're working
your partners in places like Austin and
Atlanta but on the other hand what's
keeping them from just launching their
own app and eating your business.
>> I think uh absolutely we are uh you know
strong partner of theirs in Austin and
Atlanta and we are in a way competing
with them in San Francisco and that's
not very unusual as industries evolve.
We are in a very early stage of this
industry and what you're going to see
from us from likes of Whimo and many
other partners is everyone's going to
experiment with different models who
owns the vehicle who runs the service
which app is used. What we are focused
on is we want to provide the best
platform and I would say that in the
ride sharing industry today we are
providing the best platform and we want
to be great partners and we become great
partners by providing a great user
experience as well as great utilization
to the vehicles. There's a lot that goes
in in trying to make sure that these
vehicles that let's say have a total of
24 hours to make sure their uptime is
maximized because they have to go back
they have to get charged and so on their
positioning where should they be
positioned in the city that is optimized
so that the revenue generating time and
the revenue generating miles for any
particular vehicle are maximized. That
uptime thing I think is important,
right? I mean, these are vehicles
estimates are they cost maybe $200,000
each with all the s the software and and
sensors. Those sensors are very
expensive. Now, that's probably going to
come down in time, but right now they're
expensive and you want to make sure if
you if you if you're using them, you're
deploying them, they're they're being
maximized, right? But you also don't
want to have too many of them, I would
imagine, if you're a company. So this
hybrid approach that you're talking
about, I imagine that's kind of the big
sell to a company like Whimo that they
can kind of put a number of out there, a
number of vehicles out there and kind of
maximize their ROI on that. That's
absolutely one of the biggest ones, Tim.
Uh, if you think about it, for anyone to
have enough cars on a Friday evening at
6:00 p.m. when you both have this
combination of commute as well as party
traffic that's starting to happen, you
just can't have enough cars. Or if you
try to deploy enough cars to be able to
meet that demand, you're going to have a
lot of idle time on your hands because
these are assets that you're deploying
in the city. Now we have the benefit of
having a flexible supply pool in our
core business and we know when to deploy
that supply pool uh depending on the
peaks and troughs of the demand in that
particular city.
>> But to be clear, the flexible supply
pool is humans not robots, right? The
robots are a fixed cost. They're always
there.
>> That's well there are two aspects to it.
That's a great question. So the flexible
supply pool is our driver base
>> and we have now more than a decade of
experience on how we work with our
drivers to be able to bring them on the
platform at the right time. If you look
at the driver app, there is so much
guidance.
>> Yeah,
>> exactly. Well, we communicate with them.
The app tells them when it is busy, when
they should come online, when there are
incentives, what the earnings are. So
that's a very well-horned system for us
on the driver side. Now you're right
that for autonomous vehicles these
vehicles are on the road or they are at
least in the city. Now there is further
optimization that we can do based on our
understanding of the demand patterns
which is look if uh if a city has 100
cars but you're at a point of time in
the day or the week where you're not
going to be able to utilize all the 100
cars. It doesn't make sense for them to
be driving around because every mile
that they're driving they're using
dollars. They're using cost, they are
using charge and they will have to be
recharged. So there's a lot of
technology that we are building now to
be able to optimize that part of it both
where they should be and when they
should be online and when they don't
need to be on.
>> That implies a rosy picture for drivers,
right? They are only called upon when
they can maybe maximize their earnings
because there's peak demand. But there's
got to be some misgivings. What are your
drivers? What have you heard? Are people
are they afraid of being replaced by
these robot drivers?
>> We definitely get a lot of questions as
you may expect. The good news is that
what we are seeing in Austin so far in
the last 6 to 9 months of our
deployment, drivers have actually made
more money because the overall number of
trips in Austin has been twice our if
you look at our yearon-year growth in a
city like Austin, it's almost twice our
national average. So the overall demand
level in Austin has gone up. The number
of trips that drivers are getting have
gone up. and the earnings that the
drivers are getting has gone up as well.
>> So you're seeing like what doubledigit
growth in demand for or per or or rides
in Austin.
>> Uh I don't know the exact number but the
demand in Austin has definitely
surpassed our national average. Now just
taking a step back, yes we are a ride
sharing company and a food delivery
company but we also see ourselves as a
company that provides an earning
platform and we have you know today more
than 9 million earners on our platform
and that's a responsibility that we take
very very seriously. So if you are an
earner on our platform there are many
different things that you can do today.
You can drive and even within driving
there are multiple different aspects
that you can sign on to versus not. You
could have a car seat for example. You
can give trips to teenagers. You can
have an uh a large vehicle which means
that you can get excel trips. But then
there's also the delivery side where you
can deliver food. You can shop for
groceries. You can do orders for third
parties. You can take packages from
person to person. So if you look at our
trajectory over the last many years, the
number of earning opportunities on our
platform for our earners have grown and
they will continue to grow. Look, we we
think we are in very early innings. We
think that 10 years from now, we're
actually going to have more earners on
our platform than we have today. And a
driving will definitely be a part of it,
but there will be many other
opportunities that earners are going to
continue to have on our platform. You
know, it's one of one of the interesting
things I think as you push drivers to
get into electric vehicles and I wonder
what you're thinking about Tesla is they
are clearly chasing their own robot taxi
future.
They want to make those robot taxis, but
also it seems like CEO Elon Musk has
this vision of his own robot taxi
service and a taxi app. What's the
threat here to Uber's vision of being a
platform for all these companies?
>> Yeah, I mean first of all, we think this
is not going to be a winner take all
market. This is going to be a massive
market with multiple players at
different points on the ecosystem. Now
we have established very clearly that we
are a platform for demand generation and
offering a hybrid uh a hybrid network.
So we would love to partner with Tesla
as their technology matures. Uh now
whether that will happen or not you know
only time will tell but I think it would
be great if their technology matures
they're taking a camera only approach in
terms of their sensor kit if that
happens that is great for the overall
industry because that'll actually drop
the cost for a lot of these vehicles if
they figure it out and I think for an
over for the overall ecosystem that
would be a very healthy outcome and yes
we would love to be a part of that part
of that platform because ultimately
whoever owns those vehicles is going to
be looking for more demand and is going
to be looking for maximum utilization of
the asset. And we're going to just
continue to keep our focus on making
sure that we are the best in the world
to be able to enable.
>> How often are you, you know, sending
emails to Elon Musk asking him to
partner?
>> I am not sending any emails or any
tweets uh to Elon Musk myself.
>> Somebody is. So, we've been talking
about the big pillar for Uber,
autonomous drivers, uh, or autonomous
vehicles really. Um, but what do you
think then the future of Uber looks
like?
>> I think the future for us is 100%
autonomous. Uh, when I say 100%, I mean
autonomous is a big part of our story.
Electric is a big part of our story.
Shared will be a big part of our story
because with shared electric and
autonomous we think we're doing the
right things for users and we're doing
the right things for cities because that
leads to safer rides that leads to
cleaner air that leads to less
congestion and we think that we play
huge role in sort of that future outcome
and that is the right sharing part. We
absolutely will also be a network that
is delivering things. Again, autonomous
we think will be a huge part of that.
Not just on the ride sharing side. We
have sidewalk robots. We just announced
a partnership with a drone uh
manufacturer called Flight Rex. So,
that's going to be on our platform
pretty soon as well. I would say the
future for Uber is some of those things.
And um the network that we bring and the
demand that we bring is obviously a part
of it but the technology platform that
we are building in rel you know in
partnership with our partners is going
to just become a very very big part of
it.
>> So the the whole picture that you're
painting here it's very 2016 2017 vibes
to me right we were promised that
autonomous vehicles were coming soon at
that point. now a bit delayed. They're
finally here. Also, people were talking
about the sharing economy a lot at the
at the time. So, a correlary of those
predictions was that people were going
to stop owning cars, that Uber and Lyft
were going to essentially end car
ownership in major metropolitan um
areas. Do you feel like we're actually
kind of you you might be delivering on
that future where people don't own
vehicles? they're because they're all
autonomous just a little bit later than
we expected.
>> Um, I think we have a better chance at
that. Now, will it end car ownership? I
don't know. People still love their
cars. These cars are extremely
personalized. I have all my stuff. I
have my kids stuff in the car. What we
have seen or even over the last few
years is when people go out to buy their
second car or their third car, there's
definitely a consideration. Do I really
need it or will Uber kind of just do
that for me? I think that that aspect is
going to increase for sure. The some
people may actually purchase vehicle
that are self-driving so I own it and
but I don't have to drive it when uh you
know when I'm on the road. I think it's
going to be a big shot in the arm in
terms of you know reducing car
ownership. I don't know about ending car
ownership. I think we are too early in
the game to be able to proclaim that.
Robot cars kind of hold this this
promise of a dramatically different
personal transportation world than a
century ago, right? And so I want you to
imagine we're 20 years into the future,
a new generation.
What does the world look like for cars?
I think the
vehicles in 20 years from now are going
to come in different shapes and sizes.
So I don't think we're even just talking
cars. I think we are talking vehicles
that look nothing like they do today.
They'll come in at different prices for
sure and they are going to be majorly
autonomous but you'll still need an app
to be able to you know book one of them
and we think that that app is absolutely
going to be Uber and that's because
we're going to be huge participant in
building that future with our partners
but from an end user perspective I think
it's going to be amazing and I think the
amount of variety that will I will have
to be able to uh move myself around the
city or between different cities. It's
going to be huge. It's going to be a
great world.
>> Well, sir, thank you for joining us
today. It was a great conversation.
>> Thank you. It's uh really pleasure to
talk to both of you. Thanks for having
me.
[Music]